#summary Description of the data file formats used for the maze files.

= Introduction =

There are 2 file formats used. A (*.MAZ*) file which is used in other applications and has a fixed size 16x16 maze. And the new (*.MZ2*) file format we created which creates smaller files, supports a maze name, and supports mazes of any dimension.


= MAZ File Format =

The .MAZ file format was created by James Jeong for use in an application called MazeEditor. We use this format for compatibility with existing mazes.

The .MAZ file consists of 256 bytes of wall info data. Each byte has a predetermined wall location associated with it.

  * 000 byte = (0,0) wall info
  * 001 byte = (0,1) wall info
  * 002 byte = (0,2) wall info
  * .
  * .
  * 015 byte = (0,15) wall info
  * 016 byte = (1,0) wall info
  * 017 byte = (1,1) wall info
  * .
  * .
  * 254 byte = (15,14) wall info
  * 255 byte = (15,15) wall info

An equation for finding the wall info byte number from (x,y) cell coordinates (0 indexed) is (byte number = 16 ** x + y).

Cell location (0,0) is the bottom left corner cell, and location (15,15) is the top right corner.

Each byte contains the following info bits. The 4 most significant bits are not used.

(MSB) 0 0 0 0 *W* *S* *E* *N* (LSB)

  * N = North Wall Bit (1=exist, 0=no wall)
  * E = East  Wall Bit (1=exist, 0=no wall)
  * S = South Wall Bit (1=exist, 0=no wall)
  * W = West  Wall Bit (1=exist, 0=no wall)

= MZ2 File Format =

Sorry, at this time no formal description is written. You'll have to look at the code http://code.google.com/p/maze-solver/source/browse/trunk/src/maze/model/MazeModel.java#501